Part One

What is HTTP?
HTTP = Hypertext Transfer Protocol. 
It is a set of rules that define 
an agreed upon format of communication for transfering hypermedia 
(graphics, audio, video, plain text, and hyperlinks) between a client and server on the web.
The client sends an HTTP request to the server, and the server sends an HTTP response
which includes the requested resource (e.g., a file or function performed for the client) 
and completion status information about the request. 

What is a URL?
URL = Uniform Resource Locator. 
It specifies the location of a given
resource on the web, which is used by the browser to retrieve it. The URL is composed
of up to 5 parts:
1. scheme - the type of transfer protocol the browser needs to use to request the resource
2. authority - the domain name for a web server & port number (optional)
      the combo of port number & IP address help to direct specific traffic
      to the correct destination
3. path - the path to the resource
4. query string/parameters (optional) - a list of key/value pairs beginning with '?' and separated by '&'
      which the web server uses to perform logic 
5. anchor - a "bookmark" inside the resource preceded by '#' that tells the browser to
      display the contents at the bookmarked spot (the anchor is not sent to the server)

What is DNS?
DNS = Domain Name System.
DNS servers translate the human friendly domain name to an IP address (a machine's address
indicated by a series of 1 byte integers separated by '.')

What is a query string?
A query string is a component of a URL and is comprised of a list of key/value pairs
separated with a '&' that a web server uses to perform logic

What are two HTTP verbs and how are they different?
GET fetches data from a server
POST sends data to a server (not idemptotent)

What is an HTTP request?
An HTTP request is a client request for a resouce (file or service) provided by a web server.

What is an HTTP response?
An HTTP response is the data sent to the client which includes the requested resource and the
request's completion status information.

What is an HTTP header? Give a couple examples of request and response headers you have seen.
An HTTP header is a name/value pair separated by a colon. HTTP headers allow clients and servers to
provide additional information in HTTP requests/responses. 
Examples: 
Accept-Language: en-US 
Content-Encoding: br

What are the processes that happen when you type 
“http://somesite.com/some/page.html” into a browser?
1. 'http' indicates to the browser that it needs to use HTTP to send a request
2. 'somesite.com' gets resolved into an IP address 
3. a connection to its IP address on port 80 (default HTTP port) is made
3. and the resource to GET is indicated by its path '/some/page.html'


Part Two 
Using curl, make a GET request to the icanhazdadjoke.com API to find all jokes involving the word “pirate”
curl 'https://icanhazdadjoke.com/search?term=pirate'

Use dig to find what the IP address is for icanhazdadjoke.com
dig icanhazdadjoke.com 
